Docs/ce 477 dataplances on ecs (#19010)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/ecs/deploy/terraform.mdx

}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Note that you could use a single `CERT PEM` for both variables. The `consul_ca_cert_arn` is the default ARN applicable to both the protocols. You can also use protocol-specific certificate PEMs with the `consul_https_ca_cert_arn` and `consul_grpc_ca_cert_arn` variables.

The following Terraform configuration passes the generated CA certificate ARN to the `mesh-task` module and ensures that the CA certificate and PEM variable are set for both HTTPS and gRPC communication.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="secret.tf">

```hcl
module "my_task" {
  source  = "hashicorp/consul-ecs/aws//modules/mesh-task"
  version = "<version>"

  ...

  tls                       = true
  consul_ca_cert_arn = aws_secretsmanager_secret.ca_cert.arn
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

### Enable secure deployment

To enable secure deployment, add the following configuration to the task module.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="secret.tf">

```hcl
module "my_task" {
  source  = "hashicorp/consul-ecs/aws//modules/mesh-task"
  version = "<version>"

  ...

  tls                       = true
  consul_grpc_ca_cert_arn = aws_secretsmanager_secret.ca_cert.arn

  acls                      = true

>   consul_server_hosts          = "https://consul-server.example.com:8501"

Author: ```suggestion
  consul_server_hosts          = "https://consul-server.example.com"
```

If you intend to leverage multi-datacenter Consul features, such as WAN federation and cluster peering, then you must add the `gateway-task` module for each Consul datacenter in your network. Refer to [Configure the gateway task module](#configure-the-gateway-task-module) for instructions.

## Configure the gateway task module    

The `gateway-task` module deploys a mesh gateway, which enables service-to-service communication across network areas. Mesh gateways detect the server name indication (SNI) header from the service mesh session and route the connection to the appropriate destination

Refer to the following documentation for additional information:

- [WAN Federation via Mesh Gateways](/consul/docs/connect/gateways/mesh-gateway/wan-federation-via-mesh-gateways)
- [Service-to-service Traffic Across Datacenters](/consul/docs/connect/gateways/mesh-gateway/service-to-service-traffic-wan-datacenters)

> Mesh gateways require TLS and gossip encryption to be enabled. Refer to the [Requirements](#requirements) for additional information. 

Reviewer: Gossip isn't needed anymore I guess since we no longer use client agents.

  version = "<latest version>"
  kind    = "mesh-gateway"

  family                    = "my-gateway"
  ecs_cluster_arn           = "<ECS cluster ARN>"
  subnets                   = ["<subnet ID>"]
  consul_server_hosts       = "<address of the Consul server>"
  tls                       = true
  consul_ca_cert_arn = "<Secrets manager secret ARN>"
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Refer to the [module reference documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/hashicorp/consul-ecs/aws/latest/submodules/gateway-task?tab=inputs) for a complete reference.

Refer to the [gateway task configuration examples](#gateway-task-configuration-examples) for additional example configurations.

## Configure the ECS controller 

Deploy the ECS controller container to its own ECS task in the cluster. Refer to [ECS controller container](/consul/docs/ecs/reference/architecture#ecs-controller) for details about the container. 

Verify that you have completed the prerequisites described in [Secure configuration requirements](#secure-configuration-requirements) and complete the following steps to configure the controller container.

### Create a an ACL token for the controller

> 1. On the Consul server, create a policy that grants `acl:write` and `operator:write` access for the controller. The policy allows Consul to generate a token linked to the policy. Refer to [Create a service token](/consul/docs/security/acl/tokens/create/create-a-service-token) for instructions.

Reviewer: Add `node:write` as well

> 1. On the Consul server, create a policy that grants `acl:write` and `operator:write` access for the controller. The policy allows Consul to generate a token linked to the policy. Refer to [Create a service token](/consul/docs/security/acl/tokens/create/create-a-service-token) for instructions.

Author: ```suggestion
1. On the Consul server, create a policy that grants the following access for the controller:

    - `acl:write`
    - `operator:write` 
    - `node:write` 
    
    The policy allows Consul to generate a token linked to the policy. Refer to [Create a service token](/consul/docs/security/acl/tokens/create/create-a-service-token) for instructions.
```

}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Note that you could use a single `CERT PEM` for both variables. The `consul_ca_cert_arn` is the default ARN applicable to both the protocols. You can also use protocol-specific certificate PEMs with the `consul_https_ca_cert_arn` and `consul_grpc_ca_cert_arn` variables.

The following Terraform passes the generated CA certificate ARN to the `mesh-task` module and ensures that the CA certificate and PEM variable are set for both HTTPS and gRPC communication.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="secret.tf">

```hcl
module "my_task" {
  source  = "hashicorp/consul-ecs/aws//modules/mesh-task"
  version = "<version>"

  ...

  tls                       = true
  consul_ca_cert_arn = aws_secretsmanager_secret.ca_cert.arn
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

### Enable secure deployment

To enable secure deployment, add the following configuration to the task module.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="secret.tf">

```hcl
module "my_task" {
  source  = "hashicorp/consul-ecs/aws//modules/mesh-task"
  version = "<version>"

  ...

  tls                       = true
  consul_grpc_ca_cert_arn = aws_secretsmanager_secret.ca_cert.arn

  acls                      = true

>   consul_server_hosts          = "https://consul-server.example.com:8501"

Reviewer: I don't think you need to provide the port in this address

  ...

  lb_enabled = true
  lb_vpc_id  = "<VPC ID>"
  lb_subnets = ["<public subnet IDs>"]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Alternatively, you can manually configure ingress to the mesh gateway and provide the `wan_address` and `wan_port` inputs to the `gateway-task` module. The `wan_port` field is optional. Port `8443` is used by default.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="mesh-gateway.tf">

```hcl
module "my_mesh_gateway" {
  ...

  wan_address = "<public WAN address>"
  wan_port    = <public WAN port>
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Mesh gateways route L4 TCP connections and do not terminate mTLS sessions. If you manually configure [AWS Elastic Load Balancing](https://aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/) for ingress to a mesh gateway, you must use an AWS [Network Load Balancer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/introduction.html) or a [Classic Load Balancer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/classic/introduction.html).

### ACLs

Configure the following options in the `gateway-task` when ACLs are enabled.

| Option | Type | Description |
| ---    | ---  | ---         |
| `acl` | Boolean | Set to `true` if ACLs are enabled. |

> | `consul_http_addr` | string |  Specifies the HTTP `address:port` of the Consul server. Required for the mesh gateway task to log into Consul via the IAM Auth Method to obtain its client and service tokens. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `consul_server_hosts` | string |  Specifies the HTTP `address` of the Consul server. Required for the mesh gateway task to log into Consul via the IAM Auth Method to obtain its service token. |
```

| `consul_https_ca_cert_arn` | string |  Specifies ARN of the Secrets Manager secret that contains the certificate for the Consul HTTPS API. |

<CodeBlockConfig filename="mesh-gateway.tf">

```hcl
module "my_mesh_gateway" {
  ...

  acls                         = true

>   consul_http_addr          = "<HTTP address of the Consul server>"

Reviewer: `consul_server_hosts`

Reviewer: I guess you should also enable `tls` here

  consul_https_ca_cert_arn  = "<Secrets Manager secret ARN>"
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

### WAN federation

Configure the following options in the `gateway-task` to enable [WAN federation via mesh gateways](/consul/docs/connect/gateways/mesh-gateway/wan-federation-via-mesh-gateways).

| Option | Type | Description |
| ---    | ---  | ---         |
| `consul_datacenter` | string | Specifies the name of the local Consul datacenter. |
| `consul_primary_datacenter` | string | Specifies the name of the primary Consul datacenter. |
| `enable_mesh_gateway_wan_federation` | Boolean | Set to `true` to enable WAN federation. |
| `enable_acl_token_replication` | Boolean | Set to `true` to enable ACL token replication and allow the creation of local tokens secondary datacenters. |

The following example shows how to configure the `gateway-task` module.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="mesh-gateway.tf">

```hcl
module "my_mesh_gateway" {
  ...

>   consul_datacenter                  = "<name of the local Consul datacenter>"
>   consul_primary_datacenter          = "<name of the primary Consul datacenter>"
>   enable_mesh_gateway_wan_federation = true
>   enable_acl_token_replication       = true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  enable_mesh_gateway_wan_federation = true
```

Other variables have been removed
